good evening as president Trump settles
in tonight for a weekend at Camp David
he's facing not only a pandemic but a
pressure cooker out in the country a
nation on edge 64,000 dead
economic desperation political tensions
and fiscal uncertainty as Congress
considers its next step all those issues
are now front and center with governors
in both parties grappling with how and
when to reopen businesses and the
president he hovers over everything
lashing out at his critics and receiving
new updates this week from advisers
about the political cost of the crisis
joining me are four reporters covering
these stories yummy Sh Alison door White
House correspondent for the PBS Newshour
we judge Aang White House correspondent
for CBS News Susan page Washington
bureau chief for USA Today and Philip
Rucker White House bureau chief for The
Washington Post
let's begin tonight with the president
and the state's one revealing snapshot
is Michigan where Democratic governor
Gretchen Whitmer has faced intense
protests for extending her emergency
declaration to May 28th some protesters
this week even carried weapons president
Trump tweeted on Friday that Whitmer
should quote give a little and put out
the fire and added these are quote good
people but they are angry but it's not
just the president versus Democrats in
Maryland Republican governor Larry Hogan
told me in a Washington Post live
interview on Thursday that he fears the
federal government could try to seize
the 500,000 coronavirus tests his state
secured last week from South Korea and
he treated them like treasure when they
landed at BWI Airport it was like Fort
Knox to us because gonna save the lives
of thousands of our citizens the
national guard protecting tests is the
National Guard in Maryland still
protecting those tests they are the
National Guard and the State Police are
both guarding these tests at an
undisclosed location so amid the
scattered reopening plans and the
protests and the alarm about testing
federal health officials have warned
governor's to not go too far too fast
they know the estate's the mayors know
their cities so you want to give them a
little
but my recommendation is you know don't
wiggle too much Ouisa
welcome to washington week and dr. fat
you just said don't wiggle too much
talking to governor's when you're
covering the governor's out there in the
states what kind of challenges are they
facing when it comes to testing as all
of these states try to reopen
you know governor's for so long have
essentially been begging the
administration to help them get supplies
so they can complete these tests you
know President Trump likes to talk a lot
about the testing capacity across the
nation and that's one thing that is the
potential to test Americans but
governors say they need the goods to do
it and despite the president and the
administration insisting that they are
helping were just not seeing that play
out on the ground in fact just this week
President Trump rolled out a national
testing blueprint in an effort under
mounting pressure to show that he is
taking leadership but when you really
look at this blueprint Bob it just shows
a list of suggestions for the state so
the big question still remains why he is
not using his full power to procure
these pieces of equipment that are so
critical for testing and I think it's
not just the states but you know just
today we're talking about the Capitol
physician saying he doesn't have enough
tests for lawmakers returning on Monday
and I think that's a really telling
story of where we are with testing and
how sorely we are still lacking and Phil
you hear from every governor governor
Hogan governor Pritzker they say they
may have tests but they don't have the
swabs so help me understand the
president's confrontation with Governor
Whitmer with other governors what behind
the scenes is driving that strategy in
those attacks well a big part of it Bob
is simple politics were in a campaign
year of course the president's going to
be standing for re-election in November
a short time away and he's trying to
shirk responsibility shirk blame for any
of the failings in the United States
response to the corona virus pandemic
central as we just pointed out is the
testing failures that the struggle to
get masked has
around this country the governor's don't
have the swabs that they need they don't
have the trained technicians that they
need to run those fancy new Abbot
machines and they're not able to perform
tests at the capacity in order to feel
safe reopening their States they want
help from Washington and they're not
getting it because the White House the
president have determined that this
should be a state issue they don't want
to have responsibility for a national
testing strategy they want to have the
states executed on their own yummy are
we seeing a red state blue state divided
you look at some of these states like
Texas and Georgia with Republican
governors moving swiftly to reopen
Democratic governors like governor
Whitmer facing protests we are we're
seeing what is really the consequences
of a more polarized America as a whole
and now we're seeing these different
policies play out state by state I
should know that what we G and Phil are
talking about tonight are really the
beginnings of how this crisis began
which is that the from the from the very
beginning we saw state and local leaders
governor's begging for some sort of real
federal policy on testing real federal
policy on how to handle this coronavirus
outbreak and they have continued to say
that they continue to say that they want
more got into them the White House but
they want more help from the White House
so the idea that you can reopen the
government without having a large
testing strategy governor's say is just
something that can't happen and that
includes whip up some Republican
governors like Larry Hogan who we saw
literally smuggle in tests from South
Korea because he said that he needed to
get that that that equipment for his
state so what you're seeing is really
the the fruits of not only as I said a
polarized America but also in America
where states are having to fend for
themselves because the White House has
said that they don't want to be part of
this national stress ting strategy
because they say it's a local issue of
course we have but I think continue to
talk about the fact that the president
said more than a month ago now that
anyone who wants a test could get a test
and that wasn't true then and it's not
trees now
you